# Meeting notes 2021-01-22

## ToDo
- [x] QC-ed genotypes (Binyam), with floating SNP removed
  - `plink` option added
    - `--chr 1-29`
    - `--exclude snp.dupvar`
  - Namely all SNP of postion 0, and duplicates, including the first one were removed
  - [x] serialized base population `ns.ser` was done again.
  - $N_{\text{SNP}}$: 53,211 $\to$ 50,793.
- [x] female:male = 2
  - assuming sex of the 600 salmons can be randomly assigned.
  - make sure that the constant nuclear population size is a multiple of 3.

## ToDo - cont. (1)
- [x] using `threshold` as the parameter for binary trait simulation.
  - the `threshold` is measured with $\sigma_p$
  - should be corrected with mean of base.
- [x] unified selection parameters.
- [x] Assumming $N_{\text{ID}}$ for genotyping, challenging are similar accross generations.
  - generation 1 need to be scaled as the base size is usually different.
  - the ID with production records are also selection candidates.
  - assuming genotype every body.

## ToDo - cont. (2)
- [x] breeding and phenotyping
- [x] dummy breeding loop
- [ ] GEBV method
  - [ ] GBLUP
  - [ ] SNPBLUP
  - [ ] Bayes alphabet?
- [ ] `macs` for base population.

## To be confirmed
- [ ] weights for binary and production traits for selection
- [ ] Incidence rate of the binary trait.
- [ ] add a select candidate layer who were genotyped before production trait.
  - or use estimation of previous or more generation.
    - save data of every generation?
    - above is reasonable, as using current generation only is a waste
  - SNP-BLUP/effects should be more convenient
- [ ] special program for large dataset
- [ ] where does the editing go
