# 2021-01-22
## Base population preparation
- 600 ID, 53211 SNP, 30 chromosomes
- preparation (`genotypes.jl`)
  - Convert to vcf
  - rename ref/alt T/C from 1/2
  - shift `bp` of later SNP on the same chromosome by 1000, if a same position appears
    - to utilize all SNP
  - impute and phase with `beagle.jar`
  - $\Rightarrow$ `Dict(:pos => Int[chr bp], :hap => Int8[nlc, nhap])`
  - `serialize` to file for faster later retrieval
- with `macs`?

## QTL simulation
  - randomly sample `nqtl` loci for each trait
  - sample $a_i\relstack{iid}{\sim}N(0, 1)$
  - variance of BV of base population $v$ is calculated
  - final $a_i\relstack{iid}{\sim}N(0, \frac{1}{v})$
    - this will make $v_g=1$
    - make it easier to determine $v_e$ with different $h^2$
  - initial mean and ideal ID were also returned.

## Dropping
  - random mating to make a 2-generation pedigree
    - take female:male ratio, and full sibship size as parameters
  - using Haldane function, and 1 cM = 1e6 bp
    - typical for mammals
    - it may be different in salmon
  - using uniform recombination rate across genome.
    - also ignored sex differences.
  - Drop SNP in base through pedigree into the next generation

## Phenotypes
  - the production trait
    - handy to create phenotypes of various $h^2$
  - the binary trait
    - given $h^2$ and ratio of incidences.

## Gene modification
  - [ ] insert a GWAS procedure?
    - or just add a factor to the QTL I simulated.

## Genomic evaluation
  - [ ] or just use true BV?
  - Estimation is just to add a factor

## Jenko's procedure
### Parameters to be considered
- number of (selected) sires (to be edited)
  - top
  - bottom
- number of loci
- I will repeat its best scenario

## An optimization problem
- on $R$esponse of selection, while
- keep the potential for future selection
- and minimize inbreeding accumulation.